# 5/4/23

The first section of OH focused on the project, where we discussed how to
properly format a variable-length vector of uint16's on the wire.
Unfortunately, the doctests included for that scaffolding question were
unnecessarily confusing! They included a length-size value equal to the number
of elements in the vector, which obfuscated the fact that the `n` parameter
refers to the _number of bytes needed to encoded the length portion of the
variable-length vector_. The following doctest has been added to the project
template to clarify (note that the first 3 bytes are used to encode the length
of the payload):

```python
    >>> pretty_hex(scaffolding_variable_vector_uint16(3, [1, 2, 3]))
    00 00 06 00 01 00 02 00 03
```


We also spent some time talking about how to structure a dict as initially
required by the pset, but as noted [on slack][1], I modified the auto-grader
after OH to accpet either a typed dict `P(x=0, y=0)` or a 2-tuple `0, 0` where
applicable. After this update, all the auto-import stuff started working.
Pleaes review that linked thread and reach out if you run into futher issues
there.

Then we got a little bit into the math for ps4. The combination of a defined
addition operation + points on an elliptic curve form a ["group"][3], similar
to the additive group of regular integers. In regular integers, the "identity
element" is `0`, whereas in EC points it is the "point at infinity", or places
where `y = 0` (and thus the slope/tangent at that point is equal to infinity).
The nice thing about these "groups" is that they share common properties, and
we can use ideas illustrated in one (integers, which I'll do below) into
another (EC points, which you'll do in ps4).

Firstly, we can build multiplication from addition:

```python
>>> 5 == 5 * 1 == 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1
True
```

You can do negation in a similar way:

```python
>>> -5 == 5 * -1 == -1 * (1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1)
True
```

In regular integers, we can see that division is the same as multiplying by an
inverse:

```python
>>> 4 == 8 / 2
True

>>> 4 == 8 / 2 == 8 * 2**-1
True

>>> 4 == 8 * pow(2, -1)
True
```

But we can't take the inverse of the identity element:

```python
>>> 0 ** -1
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
ZeroDivisionError: 0.0 cannot be raised to a negative power

>>> 8 * pow(0, -1)
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
ZeroDivisionError: 0.0 cannot be raised to a negative power
```

We also can't do modulo (same as `%` in python) on a field of size `0`:

```python
>>> 8 * pow(0, -1, 0)
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
ValueError: pow() 3rd argument cannot be 0
```

As noted [on slack][2], a few folks are having issues with `point_multiply`
where `n < -1`. I've updated github with some relevant doctests (as well as
linked to additional resources in the README), but i wanted to drop a quick
conceptual note here as well. This operation works on the multiplicative group
of EC curve points just like it does in regular integer multiplication. To
multiply by a negative number, you can just multiply by the absolute value of
that number and then negate the result: `3 * -7 == -1 * (3 * 7)`. If I were to
implement that in python, it would probably look something like:

```python
def negate(x: int) -> int:
    return -1 * x

def multiply(a: int, b: int) -> int:
    if b < 0:
        return negate(multiply(a, abs(b))
    return a * b
```

In our case for `point_multiply`, the `a` parameter above would be a point of
type `P`.


[1]: https://2023springapp-9hw9451.slack.com/archives/C056GAW5G3A/p1683313313447589
[2]: https://2023springapp-9hw9451.slack.com/archives/C056GAW5G3A/p1683437626904059
[3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Group_(mathematics)
